# rackspace-terraform-web-service
This repository contains a solution for launching a simple website in AWS
using Terraform configuration files and a bash script.
# Setup

- Clone the repository https://github.com/Emmanuel289/rackspace-terraform-web-service.git.
- Open a terminal and navigate to the root directory. Run the following commands and enter "yes" to approve the actions after confirming the deployment plan.
```
terraform init   #  Updates the terraform modules and required providers
terraform plan  # Optional: run terraform plan -out <design.plan> to save the deployment plan to an output file named <design-plan>
terraform apply # Apply the actions in the plan
```

# Components

- ``` vpc.tf``` file contains configuration for a VPC that is deployed in the Canada-Central region. The VPC is allocated with the 10.0.0.0/16 CIDR block.
- The VPC spans 3 availability zones and comprises 3 /24 public subnets and 3 /24 private subnets.
- A pair of public and private subnets live in an availability zone and a NAT gateway is attached to each public subnet.
-  ```elb-asg.tf ```  contains the configuration for an autoscaling group with a launch template for EC2 instances. Scaling policies are also configured to resize the number of instances according to a cpu utilization threshold of 75 %.
-  The ```elb-asg.tf``` file also contains configuration for an elastic load balancer which is used to register the instances within the autoscaling group.
- Security groups are defined in ```sec-grps.tf```. A security group that allows HTTP traffic to the load balancer from anywhere (not directly to the instance(s)) and one that allows only HTTP traffic from the load balancer to the instances(s) are configured.
- ```install_apache.sh``` installs an apache web server on an EC2 instance when it comes into service.
- The ```variables.tf``` contains variable declarations that were used across several resources and ```outputs.tf``` contains exported variables that were useful for debugging.
- The files matching the ```.terraform``` pattern are generated by Terraform during runtime to capture state and other management tasks.

# Credits
- I would like to thank the team at RackSpace for the opportunity to work on this project.

# License
- None.






